---
layout:     post
title:      Molding and Casting
image:      img/casting_header.jpg
number:     '06'
---

This week we are learning molding and casting, which has a few more steps than you might expect:

1. Design a 3d model with "registration" and a "pour hole."
2. Mill the part out of a wax block.
3. Create a silicone negative from the wax block.
4. Fill the silicone negative with a casting material to form the final part.

## Designing the part

I wanted to make something that would prevent the ends of cables from falling off of my desk. There are a few subtleties in modeling a mold part:

- We are using a 2.5 axis machine, so all cuts have to be vertical. You can divide the piece into multiple sections to achieve this.
- Include "registration" ports so that the parts can fit together cleanly.
- Include a hole that is exposed to the outside where liquid can be poured.

Here is a work in progress of my model that shows these features:

{% include image.html url="/img/casting_modeling.jpg" description="" %}

## Milling

I milled the part on the ShopBot and had a great time learning the MasterCam software.

{% include image.html url="/img/casting_milling_wax" description="ShopBot doing its thing!" %}

## Molding

Creating the mold is the easiest part. I mixed some OOMOO 25 as the mold:

{% include image.html url="/img/casting_making_silicone.jpg" description="" %}

And then filled the wax cavity:

{% include image.html url="/img/casting_filling_the_mold.jpg" description="" %}

Tada! It comes out really easily, even without anti-stick spray:

{% include image.html url="/img/casting_mold_finished.jpg" description="" %}

## Casting

I used SmoothCast 256 with black dye as my casting material. It's pretty straightforward to use, just follow the instructions on the box.

{% include image.html url="/img/casting_taping_the_mold.jpg" description="" %}

{% include image.html url="/img/casting_final_part.jpg" description="The final part: ready to hold cables!" %}



